I mentioned earlier that it is based on our market language.
In this case, we're using YML format.
Its the preferred format.
But if you're comfortable with JSON or JavaScript Object Notation,
you can use that as well because that one is supported by Cloud formation.
However, I've noticed in the industry overall that YML is much more common,
not only in AWS but in other Clouds as well.
YML is a very standard way of declaring resources.
So you might want to stick to that.
That's why we chose Visual Studio Code,
simply because it allows you to format properly YML files.
As you'll get to understand,
YML is very picky about indentations and tabs and spaces, so be careful with that.
You want to have a text editor or code editor that allows
you to properly see the indentations that you have.
Now let's talk specifics about Cloud formation.
This script that we're looking at,
which we're calling testsCloudformation.YML
is basically the smallest thing that you will have.
It basically creates a single resource.
In this case, we're calling it a VPC.
By the way, it says VPC here in the name,
but the name is just a reference for you when you are creating the scripts.
So you can call UdacityVPC and there's nothing wrong with that.
So that's just a label for
your personal reference so that you can refer to it throughout the script.
Now the type is very specific for what we're doing.
The type is really what tells Cloud Formation what do you want to create.
In this case, the type that we're specifying is AWS::EC2::VPC.
Now, I'm not going to ask you to memorize any of this,
even you'll see me myself going to the documentation
to look up these values when it's appropriate.
For example, let's say that I wanted to create this VPC right now and I don't
know how to do it or I do know I just forgot.
So what I would do is I will go back to the browser here,
I'm going to open a new tab,
and I will type cloudformation vpc.
Chances are that will be the first link that you see,
and it will take you to the documentation on confirmation on how to create VPCs.
The first thing you'll see is syntax followed by properties.
So let's take a look. I'm going to skip the JSON format because I'm working with the YML.
So you'll see that right away.
It will show you all the properties that it has.
However, most of the resources that you're going to create,
they have smart default values,
so you can get away with not specifying everything and it will still work just fine.
So let's take a look at these values here.
So as I mentioned earlier,
the type is AWS::EC2::VPC.
Again, you don't need to memorize it.
In fact, the official documentation has a copy button here,
so you can copy and paste this into your script right away.
So you don't have to worry about that.
Now you see this says this property CIDR block is required.
So if you are creating one,
you need to specify this property.
However, the rest you'll see enabled DNS support is not required,
so you can just ignore that and not put it at all,
and the same goes on all the way down.
So really the only required parameter in this case is CIDR block.
So if I were to create a VPC right now,
all I would do is type a name,
whatever name I like,
type the resource type, which is EC2::VPC,
and then specify the single property of CIDR block,
whatever value it may be.
Again, don't worry at this time of what is
the VPC and what it does and why am I creating one,
because we're just trying to test the script and make sure it works.
Let's get back to this script.
Here in the script,
we have enabled DNS host name is true.
Like we said earlier, this is an optional property,
but I decided to have it here to be able to set it to true and I specified a value for
the cider block which is going to be
the IP address space that is going to be used by this VPC.
We will get to that probably in the next lesson,
we're going to discuss what exactly it is and how to use a properly,
but right now let's just focus on the format and how to test this.
So going down the line,
you will see we can create more and more resources.
We can create more resources in the same script.
So this is just a VPC.
We can create more networking components,
we can create servers,
we can create web server.
Anything you need, you can declare it in this file.
Also your learned that it's not a good idea to just continue
down the line that clearing a lot of things because this is going to grow very fast,
you're going to end up with hundreds of lines of code just talking about the same thing.
We don't want that situation.
What we want to do is create several files and group them based on either logic,
for example, one for networks and one for servers, or by ownership.
Ownership means if the software developers know better how to deploy their application,
then create Lego development of file for resources and let them do it.
If the operational folks they know better how to
deploy a database and manage those production resources,
then let them have a separate file with those resources.
Anyways, everything comes together in the deployment pipeline,
so no worries there.
So just remember that it's a best practice to group resources.
Group those resources based on what works best for your company,
not just one large file with everything, you don't want to do that.